ated with hypoxia-induced changes in mRNA expression. Genes
within 50 kb of a HIF-1-binding site were significantly enriched for
up-regulated mRNA expression under hypoxic conditions (Fig. 2C,
HRE(cid:8)). The association between HIF-1 binding and increased
gene expression was most apparent for binding sites located within
the promoter of genes but was also highly significant when binding
was within intragenic or enhancer regions (Fig. S2D). By compar-
ison, the set of ChIP fragments without identifiable core HREs had
no demonstrable enrichment in gene expression under hypoxic
conditions (Fig. 2C, HRE(cid:4)). Likewise, fragments excluded above
as ‘‘nonspecific’’ (e.g., Fig. 1) did not have enriched expression
under hypoxia (FDR q value 0.23). The average MAT score (ChIP
enrichment) of HRE(cid:4) hits was also significantly lower than HRE(cid:8)
hits (Fig. S2E), and de novo motif search did not identify any
overrepresented motifs that might suggest an alternative HIF-1
binding motif . Together, these results suggested that HIF-1 ChIP
fragments without identifiable core HREs were not direct HIF-1-
binding sites and may represent indirect binding, such as through
bridging interactions with coactivator complexes such as p300/CBP
(8, 9). Furthermore, none of the core HRE-negative hits have been
previously reported as hypoxia-responsive genes. Therefore, to
focus our analysis on direct HIF-1-binding sites and transactivation
targets, all subsequent analysis focused on the 283 high-confidence
core HRE-containing HIF-1-binding sites (Table S3).
